# MintCoin Development Update 2018-10-04

It's been over a month since the last update, so I'm sure you are all
eager for the latest MintCoin news. This month one of the other
MintCoin team members has helped me write the update. I think that it
is nice to have more voices updating the MintCoin world, and hopefully
you will too.

## MintCoin Conference Call

The current team working on MintCoin chats every day via Telegram, but
we have never spoken to each other. We had our first conference call
on 2018-09-19. While a short call, it was nice to hear the voices of
the people that have been dedicating time to MintCoin. We intend to
have them more frequently to help coordinate our efforts.

## New New New Website (news from EuroCentium)

You've probably noticed that last month we have lost control of our
main website and basically all our media channels. This was due to the
fact that one of our oldest and most appreciated MintCoin member
MintyAllDay stopped running the site.

We are still trying to get in touch with him but in the meantime we
have started a new website, https://www.mintcoinofficial.eu, and other
social media channels. We also have volunteers posting news into those
channels to improve the public's MintCoin awareness. So please share,
like and follow these social media channels amongst your friends and
cryptogroups, this will help us to spread the news faster and wider.

Although we like our fresh and Minty main website we also noticed that
it is not very SEO friendly meaning that it is hard to find through
search engines, it is also time consuming to add new content and/or
news. 

So we are in the background preparing an additional informational
MintCoin information website where we will post news and updates in
the future and by doing this improving our SEO and visibility on the
web.

## The Great MintCoin Information Cleanup

With a shiny new web site and Twitter account, we decided to get
references fixed everywhere. We've had pretty pretty good progress,
with a semi-official versions of:

* Web site (https://www.mintcoinofficial.eu)
* E-mail (info@mintcoinofficial.eu)
* Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/MintCoin-Official-Community-328740334335003)
* Twitter (@MintCoin_Team)
* Reddit (r/MintCoin)
* Telegram (https://t.me/OfficialMintcoin)
* Discord (https://discord.gg/g9EeSk3)
* GitHub (https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet)

For Facebook and Twitter there are old sites or accounts that do not
reflect current MintCoin work, but we are still hopeful we can
eventually get everything fixed.

We also managed to get information updated in a lot of sites that are
run by other people, like Coin Market Cap, Coingecko, CryptoPanic, and
the Cryptos and Coins Wiki. Additionally we are working with exchanges
that carry MintCoin to get their information about MintCoin up to date.

There are sadly sites which we may never be able to get fixed, such as
old GitHub repositories, YouTube channels, and so on. If you know
people who were around years ago on MintCoin please ask them to
contact us so we can either administer the site for them or just give
them the current correct MintCoin information.

Finally, if you find a site that has an outdated or in any other way
incorrect information about MintCoin, please let us know and we'll try
to get it fixed as best we can.

## MintCoin Code of Conduct

We would like MintCoin and the MintCoin community to be as welcoming
as possible. One tool used to help in this is a Code of Conduct. This
is a document which writes down how we expect to treat each other, and
what happens if someone acts in a way that we do not accept, such as
by harassing someone or with other unacceptable behavior.

I took an example policy from the Geek Feminism wiki and modified it
slightly. A draft is available here:

https://github.com/shane-kerr/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/blob/code-of-conduct/doc/code-of-conduct.md

This is _not_ final, and needs to be updated to make it more minty (it
feels very legalistic and American in tone, which is probably not
appropriate for a relaxed and friendly community like MintCoin). I
also need to make sure all of the administrators are happy to help
with enforcement. And most importantly, we need to make sure that the
community is willing to accept whatever code we end up with.

We have had times in the past where people crossed the line from
vigorous disagreement into personal attacks, which doesn't feel minty
at all to me. A Code of Conduct should help us all remember to stay
nice.

## MintTorrent (news from EuroCentiem)

Another topic that we frequently heard from our community is the
availability/location of the bootstrap to get synchronized with the
blockchain and start minting.

Hence we have launched a torrent with a bootstrap of the last
blockchain of our own wallets. We will update the torrent more
frequently (we are committed to once a month). We recommend that you
only download the torrent file through https://www.mintcoinofficial.eu
and not by links handed over by other sources.

The dev team is also looking into possibility of implementing that
functionality directly into the MintCoin Wallet.

Clicking on the "MintCoin Bootstrap Torrent" button should open your
favourite Torrent downloader. Just let it run until you received the
complete file and follow the installation instructions.

We would also appreciate if you keep "seeding" this file in your
Torrent Client for 45 days to support the other MintCoin users that
download the bootstrap you can limit in most clients the bandwidth
upload. Don't worry this download will be automatically be invalid
after 45 days when a new a bootstrap is published.

## MintCoin Oragami (news from EuroCentiem)

Then an older topic whether or not there existed a MintCoin paper
wallet like the project that we have on GitHub. It has always existed
and was online at:

https://walletgenerator.net/?currency=MintCoin

We are now looking into on hosting it onto our own servers and domain
so that we can guarantee that there is no sneakpeaking during online
usage and creation of the paper wallets keys.

## Wallet Updates

With all the other work going on, only a few minor updates to the
wallet have been made since the last MintCoin development update:

* [Fix warnings from recent gcc versions](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/pull/93)  
  This one may actually have caught a few minor bugs, but is mostly a
fix for compiler warnings.

* [Work around evil Qt prejudice against en_DK](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/pull/92)  
  `en_DK` is [The wonderful en_DK locale](http://www.ivoras.net/blog/tree/2010-12-20.the-wonderful-en_dk-locale.html)
  but Qt does not support it. However, with a minor tweak we can get
  proper ISO formatted dates & times in our MintCoin wallet.

* [Update all of our contact and social media information](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/pull/89)  
  As mentioned above, we did a lot of fixes for our social media.
  These are now updated in the GitHub repository as well.

We also have a 8 new issues reported on GitHub. This is a lot, and we
will look into them. The good news is that this means that there are
people using the new wallet and they have found out how to report
problems so we can fix them!

Some research into how to download torrents has been done, but it is
far from complete. It is possible that we may be able to speed up
syncing in other ways and not need to do this in the wallet itself,
but more investigation is needed.

## Orange Pi with a sprig of Mint

After weeks of synchronizing, we finally have an Orange Pi running the
MintCoin wallet! This is a relatively cheap SBC (single-board
computer), like the Raspberry Pi. What allows it to run MintCoin while
the Raspberry Pi cannot is that it has 2 GByte of RAM. It seems like a
nice solution for low-power minting, with something like 1 to 3 watts
of power needed.

It can receive and send MintCoin without any problems. It is currently
holding some MintCoin that will mature in 16 more days, and then we
can confirm that minting also works.

Once we have verified that the wallet works, we will provide
information on how to set up your own. If there is interest we may
sell these with the MintCoin wallet pre-installed so you can transfer
your MintCoin there and let it quietly mint for you.

## The Best Way to Buy MintCoin

When MintCoin was selling for 2 satoshi recently, I wanted to convert
some of my other altcoin to MintCoin. I was unsure whether I should
first convert to Bitcoin, or Litecoin, and so on. Also, which exchange
would give the best rates?

I wrote a tool which would help predict this for me, which you can use
here:

https://anguished-memorable-doctor.anvil.app/

It connects to the three exchanges that carry MintCoin and have an API
that works from your browser. (Using the API from your browser is
handy for me because it means I don't have to set up a backend server
somewhere, and it is nice for you because nobody has to see what
conversions you are doing except the exchanges themselves.)

It actually looks at the order books and figures out how much each
transaction would give you, including exchange fees. So, for example,
imagine that you wanted to convert Bitcoin Cash (BCH) into MintCoin
(MINT). This makes a lot of sense because Bitcoin Cash is
Proof-of-Work (PoW) and therefore not really sustainable in the same
way that MintCoin is. üçÉ

So, using the took you can see that right now if have 0.1 BCH and you
convert first to Bitcoin (BTC) you will end up with about 260k MINT,
whereas if you convert first to Dogecoin (DOGE) you will end up with
about 285k MINT, and if you convert first to Litecoin (LTC) you will
end up with about 350k MINT. That's about ‚Öì more MINT!

Markets change all the time, so you would benefit from using the tool
whenever you are thinking of buying MINT.

While I wrote the tool for MintCoin, it supports all of the
crypto-currencies at all exchanges. I don't recommend using it for
anything other than buying more MintCoin, but feel free to experiment
if you ever need to use any other currencies. üòâ

That's it for this update.

_Stay Minty,  
Shane Kerr_

# Copying

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.
