# MintCoin Development Update 2018-09-01

_One small release for MintCoin, one minty release for mankind._

I'm feeling especially minty today, since we finally have a new
release of the MintCoin wallet!

## MintCoin 2.1.0

While the plan was to publish a release candidate today, we had
positive feedback from beta users and no additional changes, so I
decided to push the schedule and make the release today the official
2.1.0 release.

You can read all about the release - and download the new softare - on
the GitHub release page:

https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/releases/tag/v2.1.0

Please have a look at the notes there to see a summary of some of the
most important fixes and changes with this release.

While this release doesn't solve all of the MintCoin problems, it
gives us a much more solid foundation moving forward.

## Things to Improve for the Next Release

For Windows, we only have a 32-bit release. For some unknown reason,
the 64-bit version does not work - a problem that we have had for 3
years already. Luckily the 32-bit version works fine, now that we know
how to build a version that can access up to 3 GB of RAM.

We _do_ have a Windows installer, which is basically expected by
Windows users.

The release only inludes the command-line version of the Linux
executable. We need a static version due to all of the library
dependencies, and Qt (used for the GUI) does not support static builds
on Linux. This shouldn't be a major problem as most Linux users are at
least somewhat familiar with building software. Still, I'll be aiming
to make packages for popular distributions soon.

For macOS, we just ship a ZIP archive and hope for the best. I don't
have an Apple computer to test on. It looks like it should be possible
to make a DMG file in the future to allow macOS users to do the normal
drag & drop installation that many applications do. We'll look at that
in the future.

> [Good artists copy; great artists steal.](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2013/03/06/artists-steal/)

The most important missing bit is a way to automatically get a
snapshot of the MintCoin blockchain. Now that the wallet connects to
peers without trouble and no longer crashes due to memory issues, this
is the biggest pain point for new users.

We should probably try to replicate something like
[FlutterCoin](http://fluttercoin.me/) has. This is documented in this
GitHub issue:

https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/issues/83

## What Now?

So... what now?

For the short term, I will continue to spend time fixing the MintCoin
wallet and adding some improvements. I'll try to work with some of the
administrators and get a sustainable community going. We can use all
the help we can get. ðŸ˜‰

In the long term, who knows? I really prefer a proof-of-stake crypto
currency, because of the reduced energy requirements. And I prefer a
community crypto currency, because I believe that we should favor
technologies that benefit everyone instead of rich investors.
Hopefully these things are important to you too, and so MintCoin is
important to you also.

_Keep Minting,  
Shane Kerr_

# Copying

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.
