# Mint Development Update 2018-03-12

My fellow MINT fans,

While my goal is to provide updates each week, sometimes other duties
have priority and your _Mint Development Update_ may be delayed or
even skipped. Never fear, my intention for now is to keep working on
MintCoin and providing regular updates!

From the development side, we had a bit of a disappointment when
Enlil, one of our more productive technical MintCoin people, decided
to leave the project. This was even more sad as it did not happen
under good terms, and also included shutting down the explorer he had
been running. A loss to MintCoin to be sure, and also a reminder that
we should be careful to depend on individuals and try to build
solutions operated by and for the community.

Both MintCoin and the larger crypto currency market have fallen in
value since the last update. Of course this makes many people unhappy,
and my plans for an early retirement are now on hold. Our technology
is better than ever, so lets have a look at what happened.

# GitHub Access

I finally got update access to the official MintCoin GitHub
repository. This is an important requirement for actually publishing a
new version of the MintCoin wallet software!

[https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet)

Since then I have been slowly merging changes into the upstream
repository. This work is almost complete, and in the future the
upstream GitHub will be the best place to get a pre-release version of
the wallet code.

Also, any future bug reports or feature requests should go to the
issue tracker of the official MintCoin repository:

[https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/issues](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/issues)

The open issues in my personal repository will probably not be moved,
but hopefully over time these will be resolved.

# Travis CI

GitHub supports a Continuous Integration (CI) service called Travis
CI. This runs a set of commands whenever a change is made to the code.
The official MintCoin repository now makes sure that any proposed
change will build both the GUI and daemon version of the MintCoin
wallet.

In the future we can extend this to build the macOS version, once we
the build working on macOS at all. There may also be an ARM version to
verify builds on that CPU family. Finally, we will use Travis CI to
run tests once we have them working as well.

Note that Travis CI is not a _great_ CI solution. It only runs a very
old version of Ubuntu Linux, and has limited capabilities. But it is
free, and does seem to work, so it is an improvement over what we had
before (which was nothing).

We may investigate similar services such as the [openSUSE Build
Service](https://build.opensuse.org/) which may provide additional
systems to build and test against, as well as providing packages for
us to distribute.

# Development Team

As mentioned in the introduction, Enlil left MintCoin development.
Another contributor, Warren, will be busy doing other things for a
while; we expect him to return though. A new developer has also
started working with us and has verified the ARM build as well as had
some thoughts about a mobile wallet, which would be amazing.

A group of developers has contacted me and expressed their interest in
working on the coin. I have happily provided them with the list of
issues that I have found, which is on the GitHub issue tracker. I have
also let them know the plans, which you can read about at the end of
this update. I have not seen any pull requests yet, but this is a
hopeful sign.

# New Exchanges

While not strictly technical, people really want to know when MintCoin
will be offered on more exchanges. While it is offered on four
exchanges now, the only one that usually has any real volume of
MintCoin is Cryptopia.

Minty All Day has applied for a listing on Kucoin, and is pursuing
that, but it seems it will take a lot of money.

We have also been told that another exchange will be listing MintCoin
in April. In addition, they have volunteered to provide a new
blockchain explorer, which will be an open source solution.

# MintCoin Development Fund

People are very generous, and want to help with the technical work of
MintCoin. I think that this is great!

After talking with Minty All Day and some other MintCoin
administrators we came up with a model where the coins staked by the
development fund wallet each month are donated to the active
developers. This provides a sustainable way to reward people
interested in MintCoin development. It also has the advantage that any
new donations will help development indefinitely.

There are a few drawbacks of giving out the staked coins. One
disadvantage is that developers do not do the same amount of work each
month, so giving out the same coins each month does not make complete
sense. Also, if many developers are working on the project then they
are in a sense competing with each other for these funds. Indeed since
the MintCoin interest is 5% per year this means that the monthly
payment would be only 1/240th of the development fund.

I want to see this written up in a semi-formal charter, just
explaining exactly how it works and what any new developers can
expect. A number of open issues remain, such as who decides what
rewards are given, what security there is on the fund itself, and what
to do with the MintCoins in the fund if it ever shuts down.

While this is indeed a little bureaucratic, I think that the clarity
and transparency would be appreciated by both anyone in the community
who donates as well as any developer who works on MintCoin.

For full disclosure, Minty All Day awarded me the first monthly payout
for February's work. I approached Enlil, who I felt deserved half or
even more of this, but he declined. So, thank you everyone who has
donated to the MintCoin development fund! It is good to be
appreciated, and I am very grateful.

# MintCoin Whitepaper & Roadmap

Another thing that everybody really wants is a MintCoin whitepaper and
roadmap. That's really not my thing, but luckily community member
Crypto Panda has provided a draft whitepaper to meet the demand, along
with a proposed timeline for a whole set of Mintcoin actions.

Both will require some review and probably some further discussion,
but the roadmap and whitepaper may provide and answer to people who
think that MintCoin is lacking these important documents. The
intention is not for it to be "done", but rather for the whitepaper to
be a living document, requiring periodic review.

# MintCoin Coinburn Game

Yet another topic that repeatedly comes up is when MintCoin will do a
coin burn. 

A coin burn is when a large number of crypto coins is destroyed. The
idea is to increase the value of the remaining coins. This is
typically done by investors or developers of a coin in order to
increase the price.

In my opinion, a coin burn makes little or no sense for a coin like
MintCoin. We have no venture capitalists who hold tons of coins that
they got for free and stand to gain by a coin burn, likewise the
initial developers have long since left the project. The MintCoin
world basically has people who have coins that they value equally.

So a coin burn _could_ be done by burning coins equally for
all MintCoin holders. For example, we could burn 99.9% of MintCoins by
moving the decimal point. That would mean that a "new MintCoin" would
be worth 1000 times as much, but everyone would have 1000 times fewer.
Low-valued fiat currencies sometimes do this, but that is because it
becomes cumbersome to fill a suitcase with bills to buy a cup of
coffee. MintCoin has no such problem.

Another approach would be for one or more individuals to destroy their
coin and other people do not; in that case the people who "burned"
their MintCoin would be reducing their own wealth so that other people
can increase theirs. Of course that is their right, but I would rather
see people that want to give money away do it to a charity or some
other good cause, rather than just destroying it.

However, community member Ash has explained a possible alternative way
forward with the coin burn: a game.

As I understand it, the basic idea is to match two players who want to
try to win some MintCoin. Both players provide a fixed amount of
MintCoin, and the winner gets all of their own back and half of the
MintCoin of the lower. The remaining MintCoin get sent to a "burn
address" which cannot ever be used to send from, effectively being
destroyed.

This approach has created a lot of excitement in the community, so it
will be interesting to see how it works. While for now I am still
basically opposed to a coin burn, I will be happy to admit that it was
a good idea if it provides real benefits to MintCoin!

# GitHub Issue Update

We added a few issues:

* We would love to figure out how to reduce the memory footprint.
* A suggestion for a new main screen was presented.
* Having a system to monitor how long it takes MintCoin to transfer on
  the Internet will make sure that it remains fast.
* We should provide better status reporting when the wallet is
  syncing.

# Goaaaaaals!

As it has been for weeks now, the main focus now is still getting a
new version of the wallet that we can publish which contains updated
builds and all of the fixes that we can. In order for that to happen,
we still need:

* A macOS wallet build
* A 64-bit Windows wallet build

We have had an offer of an Apple machine for the wallet build, which
would help. We have also had an offer of someone who can rent a
Virtual Private Server (VPS) for this purpose for the project, which
we will do if we do not get an actual machine.

Things that would be nice:

* A continuous integration (CI) environment
* Speeding up the initial sync
* Packages for popular distributions (like Debian and Fedora packages)

Things that should be done someday:

* Wallet code automated testing
* Reducing the memory footprint

As always, if you would like to help, please either contact us or just
fork the code on GitHub and start hacking.

I should be putting out a new update in just a few days with fresh,
minty development news. Until then, keep minting on.

_Minty wishes,
Shane Kerr_

# Copying

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.
