# Mint Development Update 2018-02-01

Hello Minty Fresh Folks!

This is the first of what will hopefully be regular updates about the
status of MintCoin software development. I promise nothing, since I am
lazy and easily distracted, but here at least is a first step.

# Origin Story, or What the Mint is up with the Wallet?

I had been looking at altcoins, thinking about diversifying. MintCoin
caught my eye. Even though the web pages I found had an
unintentionally "retro" look to them, I like a few things about
MintCoin:

* Proof-of-Stake means that we don't need to destroy the planet to
  have a working crypto-currency.
* Not only does the coin have an actual working wallet and network, it
  has been around for several years (almost 4 now).
* There is no company or group of investors behind the coin; it is
  strictly a community effort.

That is all great, but when I downloaded the binary of the  wallet
from GitHub it would not run on my Linux desktop. Even worse, when I
tried to build it, it failed with scary compiler warnings.

I poked around the code, and discovered that the last commits were
several months ago, and that there were long-standing pull requests
waiting to be accepted or not. That is never a sign of a healthy
project.

So I popped into the Telegram group chat and discovered that all of
the previous developers have basically left the project. This is
obviously not great as there are over 1800 people in the group chat
and Cryptopia trades something like 8 to 10 BitCoin worth of MintCoin
every day. Not a lot compared to rock-star crypto coins like Ethereum
or Litecoin, but still a lot of money if you think about it.

# Rebooting the MintCoin Wallet Development

Rather than be sad, we can fix the situation!

The idea is to reboot the MintCoin wallet development. Right now there
is a Telegram group chat for people interested in this, separate from
the main Telegram group chat since I guess not everyone is interested
in the detailed discussions of C++ changes or git commit policies.

There are two schools of thought on the development now:

1. Fix and improve the existing wallet, and
2. Build an awesome new wallet!

My own feeling is that we probably do want to shift effort into making
a new wallet eventually.

The current code base was forked from NovaCoin 4 years ago, which it
appears was itself forked from a long-forgotten version of BitCoin
Core. This is not necessarily bad, but since MintCoin has not tracked
changes to the pre-fork code, it is very likely that there are bugs
that have been fixed which we still have. This should make anyone
concerned with security; any bug is a potential security problem.

Having said that, I am putting the current effort into fixing a few
things with the existing wallet, with the goal of getting a new
release out, probably 2.0.3 but maybe 2.1.0.

# Goals

I think there are a number of reasonable goals, both short-term and
mid-term. Note that none of these results in dramatic improvements for
the user, but should make the wallet slightly more solid.

## Short-Term Goal #1: Build & Run on Modern Linux (DONE)

As mentioned, the existing release has Linux binaries that won't run
on my system, because it is linked to libraries that have not shipped
in several years. The code also would not build, mostly because of
differences in the OpenSSL libraries used. I found another coin which
had the same problem, and stole the approach from this commit:

https://github.com/bitshares/bitshares-fc/commit/fee06a4c75d3215f9b502f8145383005bdda2c80

I had to rework it for our code base, but the approach fixed 90% of 
the problems. A few more tweaks to adapt to more changes in the
OpenSSL libraries, plus a Makefile fix for the command-line tool, and
we now have something that will build and run.

If you are feeling brave you can check out the branch here:

https://github.com/shane-kerr/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/tree/build-fixes-2018-01-31

## Short-Term Goal #2: Merge Open Pull Requests

We have 4 outstanding pull requests, all from 2017-06. These are
performance improvements, and seem pretty well thought out and
relatively straightforward. I am reviewing these but hope to merge
them soon.

## Short-Term Goal #3: Address Open Issues on GitHub

There are 5 open issues on GitHub, which should all be addressed.

## Short-Term Goal #4: Update the Developer & Other Documentation

The documentation needs to be reviewed and updated based on the
current state of the code base. It will take some effort to avoid
fixing things while documenting the current status, but I think it can
be done with enough laziness^Wattention.

## Short-Term Goal #5: Fix Compiler Warnings, Add More Compiler Warnings

The current code spews out lots of complaints when building. These
should all be silenced by fixing the underlying problem. When this is
done, we should turn on extra compiler warnings and fix any complaints
that those raise.

And if we are feeling very brave, we can use static code checkers
(also know as linters for historical reasons) and fix any errors those
discover.

## Medium-Term Goal #1: Release 2.0.3 or 2.1.0

In order to do this we would need to release a beta, with binary
images built for Windows, macOS, and Linux. Since I don't have Windows
or macOS this may be difficult. But it should be achievable, and might
raise some interest in the coin.

## Medium-Term Goal #2: Testing

It does not look like any of the automated tests were updated since
the fork from NovaCoin. This is, obviously, very worrying. If I was
intimately familiar with the code base and understood everything about
Proof-of-Stake crypto currency then it would be worrying, because
everybody makes mistakes. Since neither of those is true, it is
terrifying.

So the idea here is to come up with some basic tests of the code that
can be easily and automatically run. Since we probably do not want to
keep this wallet code base forever this effort should be balanced and
limtted, but not having any tests is too scary.

## Medium-Term Goal #3: Finding Peers with DNS

Right now the wallet as shipped fails to ever find any peers. If you
do some tricks with "addnode" to your configuration you can convince
the program to connect to the MintCoin network, but it is a complete
hack.

The MintCoin wallet actually includes a pretty good way to get these
initial peers, by looking up the IP addresses in the DNS. However,
none of the existing names configured in the wallet actually work at
all. It should be relatively straightforward to change these to
seeding from a working wallet. It means setting up a bit of
infrastructure and maintaining that, but it is not rocket science.

## Medium-Term Goal #4: Speeding Up Initial Sync

The software should have some faster way of getting the state of the
blockchain. The current update system takes ages, and the current
workaround of downloading this manually is not ideal, to say the
least. It should not be that hard to set up a system where a full
version of the blockchain is downloaded and used to start.

# A Minty Call to Arms

Hopefully it is clear that I don't really know what I am doing. Maybe
you do? Even if you don't I would love some help! Please? :)
