# MintCoin Development Update 2018-04-06

A Minty Day, everyone!

Spring is in the air in temperate parts of the northern hemisphere.
Just like all of plants trying to push their green buds out, the
MintCoin developers are also trying to push something out - in our
case a release of a fresh, green MintCoin wallet.

# Code Changes 

All of the code changes since our last update have been related to 
getting the wallet to build on various platforms.

# Can We Build It? Yes We Can!

Since the last update we managed to get the Windows cross-compile
working... kind-of. We have a working 32-bit version of the daemon and
the Qt GUI version. The 64-bit version is not working for reasons
unknown; whether we need this before the release or not is not yet
decided.

Enlil and I also managed to get the macOS version of the wallet built,
for both the daemon and the Qt GUI version. This required a bit of
infrastructure magic on Enlil's part to get a machine that we can
actually use to build and test it, and I am very happy with the
results.

# Travis CI: More. Better. Lazier.

As mentioned in the 2018-03-12 Mint Development Update, we are using
[Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/) to make sure that changes to the
code compile properly.

Now that we have the macOS build working, I have extended the Travis
CI builds to also check macOS as well as the Ubuntu Linux system that
we started with. In the near future we should be able to also use this
system for making sure that our Windows builds work too, and possibly
even our ARM version.

Since Travis CI is doing all the work of building the systems, we will
try to use it to actually produce the executable code that we will
ship in future releases. Having such a system in place can mean that
we should be able to make these future releases much more quickly and
reliably - that's what CI (continuous integration) is about, after all.

# GitHub Repository Status

The official GitHub repository remains:

[https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet)

We added three new issues:

* [Qt wallet is unresponsive when syncing](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/issues/48)  
  On my development virtual machine, I notice that the user interface
  is basically broken when syncing the wallet. It takes ages to
  respond. I do not see this behavior on my laptop. Anyway, I added
  this issue as it should be investigated further.

* [Find and remove unused methods](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/issues/50)  
  While getting the macOS build to work, we had to remove a broken
  method, which was unused. It occurs to me that there may be a lot of
  such methods, and we should delete them. This is a good ticket for
  someone who wants a kind of cleanup/janitorial ticket.

* [mintcoind error kernel.cpp:422](https://github.com/MintcoinCommunity/Mintcoin-Desktop-Wallet/issues/51)  
  A user has reported a bug! This is good because it may let us fix
  it. However, in this case we need more details. If you've seen a
  similar issue please feel free to add more data. Also, `hoyanf`, if
  you're out there, please get back to us. 

# Goal Recap

Our previous goals were always builds. Those are for the most part
working! So now our immediate goal is:

* Release a new MintCoin wallet

The current release is over 2 years old, so this is not a small thing.
We have a plan of sorts that we are updating as we figure out the
details. If you want to have a look you can check it out here:

https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/MintCoin-2.1-release-planning

_WARNING_: This Etherpad is very much a work in progress, meant as a
tool for people making the release. However, if you have suggestions
or want to help then as always we really appreciate it.

Eagle-eyed readers of that document may notice that we're going to be
PGP signing this and future releases. If you use PGP and are willing
to sign the MintCoin release key, please contact me.

Our list of things that would be nice remains:

* Speeding up the initial sync
* Packages for popular distributions (like Debian and Fedora packages)

We will be including a snapshot of the blockchain in an optional
version of the release, which should help with the initial sync.

And our list of things that should be done someday also remains:

* Wallet code automated testing
* Reducing the memory footprint

As always, please contact us if you want to help, or just fork the
code on GitHub and start hacking.

Until next time, as always, I am...

_Mintily Yours,  
Shane Kerr_

# Copying

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.
